>> Kadi Kraman: Next up,
let's talk about navigation.
So navigation on mobile looks quite
a bit different than navigation for web.
So if you think about mobile
apps that you used, so
we have bottom tabs, we have modals,
we have a stack navigator.
So these are concepts that
don't exist on the web.
And as mentioned earlier, React Native
doesn't come with a navigation library
built in, so we need to install one.
And in this course,
we're going to be using Expo Router.
So Expo Router is a file system-based
navigation for React Native.
And it's built on top of React Navigation,
which isn't a file system-based routing.
But the reason I mentioned that it's built
on top of React Navigation is that all
the properties for screens and screen
options that are used in React Navigation,
you can use in Expo Router.
So a lot of the time, I find it handy
to look at React Navigation docs for
these details if they don't
exist in the Expo Router docs.
So if you used web
frameworks like Next.js,
you're probably already familiar
with file system-based routing.
But in case you aren't,
the idea is that the file names and
folder names in your file system
dictate what the screen is called or
the URLs for the pages.
So, for example,
we start with an app folder, so
the root of your app is an app folder.
So the index.tsx, this is your index root.
Then if you have a screen called home,
this will be your /home root.
If you have a folder and then an index,
then the index doesn't count.
So you will just have the folder name,
in this case, /products.
And this is an example of a dynamic route,
where you can pass in anything here and
it will be retrieved by
the screen as a screen option.
So you can, for example,
have a products/123 with the product ID.
So the filename-to-URL mapping is
a little bit more obvious if you're
doing web development.
And making it work for
mobile is a little bit more tricky because
we have additional kinds of navigation.
So we have stacks, modals, and tabs.
And the key to making this
work is a layout file.
So anything inside your app folder
is a screen or a layout file.
A layout file is underscore layout,
it's called underscore layout,
and you can have exactly one per folder.
And the layout file tells you how the
screens in that folder should be laid out.
So as a stack, tab, modal, whether you
need to add additional headers, etc.
>> Kadi Kraman: So we'll be following
instructions from this Expo Router get
started docs, but I've copied this
into the course site as well.
So let's start by installing
a bunch of libraries.
So we have expo-router
react-native-safe-area-context.
So this is basically a library for,
if you're on an iOS device or
actually some Android devices as well now,
you have this header which
overlays your content.
And the safe-area-context basically
tells you what area of your
screen is safe to use.
So Expo Router uses that under the hood.
So when you do screens in Expo Router,
they are already by default
wrapped in a safe area.
Then you have expo-linking
because Expo Router comes
with deep linking built in,
expo-status-bar,
which is, there we go,
whether this top stuff is
light content or
dark content or whatever, etc.
All right, next up, so
this is the case for
every JavaScript project where
you have a package.json.
So in your package.json,
you have a main field, and
then this main field tells you what
the main entry point of your app is.
So in our case, it is expo/AppEntry.js.
And actually, if you're curious,
if I now open in my node modules,
we go to expo > AppEntry, there you go.
So all this does is it imports
registerRootComponent,
which is basically how you tell what
the root of your app is to React Native.
And it's importing this app file from
our folder, so from our own project.
So it's importing this file here,
the App.tsx.
And actually, in some cases, this might
be handy if you need to use some native
libraries that require you to do things
before the registerRootComponent.
What you can actually do is you can copy
this code into your own, like index.js.
And then point your package.json
domain file into index.js, and
then do additional things before
you register a root component.
And this is just an FYI
because it does come up, but
the AppEntry is basically
a convenience function.
All right, so in our case,
we are now changing this to
be the expo-router/entry.
And this changes the entry
point to be this app folder,
which is the root of our
file system-based routing.
Next up,
we want to create a new folder called app,
and move our App.tsx into the app folder.
And hopefully, you have VS Code that
automatically updates the inputs.
If not,
make sure that you've updated this.
Now let's rename this to index.
This is also important.
So with Expo Router, you need to
have one index file, at least one.
So if you don't like using
index as your file names,
you can get away with using them for
most screens,
but the main entry point
has to be called index.tsx.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
now I am getting an error, and
it's because I need to
restart the bundler.
I think I used it in the terminal.
>> Kadi Kraman: How do I even open this?
There we go.
You can see I don't use
the VS Code terminal very often.
All right, so if I now do yarn start.
If that doesn't work, you can do
yarn start-- reset cache as well,
but I think it should work.
So now if I reload, there we go.
Thankfully, I've gotten a warning here
cuz I missed a part of my instructions.
So I got really excited about moving
everything to the app folder,
which was this,
adding a scheme to your app.json.
Let's copy this and
open our app.json and add the scheme.
So, the reason this is required is
that Expo Router comes with deep
linking built in.
So deep linking is basically like
creating a URL that opens your app
to a specific screen.
And the way deep linking works on
mobile is that your mobile app
registers to listen to a specific scheme.
So there will be an intent fired
into your phone that goes,
hey everyone, there's an intent
going into a scheme called Taskly.
And then all the apps on your phone
will basically say, no, not for me.
Or some of them might say,
I'm registered to that, give me the URL.
That's basically how it works and
that's why it's required.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right, so now you
see that it looks exactly the same.
So what's now missing is
we need a layout file.
And actually, the reason that I did this
without adding in a layout file is that to
draw attention to the fact that all
the screens that you create in your app
folder get created as a screen in your app
even if they don't have a layout file.
So by default,
they will be in a stack navigator.
Well, let's add a layout file, so
this will be _layout.tsx.
So with Expo Router, all the screens and
layouts have a default export.
So usually with components,
we do named exports.
But in this case,
we do export default, and
function comes, whatever,
function and Layout.
So you can name this whatever
because it's a default export.
And let's return.
So we want to render this as a stack,
so we'll import
stack from Expo Router, and
I render this as a stack.
And here, you can choose to define
each of the screens you could pass
in additional options.
>> Kadi Kraman: So here,
let's do a Stack.Screen.
And the screen name will be like
the file name here, so it'll be index.
And we can pass in options to the screen.
So actually, so if I save this now, I go,
I get this header, and
the header says index.
But we don't want our screen to be
called index, cuz that's a bit silly,
cuz that's just the file name,
we can pass in a custom title.
So we'll use the options prop here and
do title,
let's call this our shopping list.
>> Kadi Kraman: That's it, there we go.
>> Speaker 2: Does schema mean that
you'll be using taskly://URIs,
or is the syntax platform-independent, so
that you can deep link from a web app?
>> Kadi Kraman: You do scheme code on //,
yes.
There is also universal linking,
it's a bit more involved.
So we're going to go through deep
linking in the intermediate course.
We actually deep link into
our app using the scheme.
But we're not going to cover, and
something that you should be aware about,
is app links.
And actually, if I go to the docs here, so
if I do linking, there you go.
So we got linking and
deep linking.
Okay, so if we go to deep linking docs,
this describes the more involved
deep llinking,
which basically verifies your URL.
So it requires you to upload,
there's instructions here,
but it requires you to upload
a special file on your website, and
then you register that
associated domain on your phone.
And then you can use iOS app links or
the, sorry,
Android app links or
the iOS universal links.
So those are the options, but
the deep linking is basically the more
low level and basic version of this.